<!-- Source: https://reference.langchain.com/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base -->

Modulev1.2.13 (latest)●Since v1.0

# base

Base interface for chains combining documents.

## Attributes

[attribute

DEFAULT\_DOCUMENT\_SEPARATOR: str](/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base/DEFAULT_DOCUMENT_SEPARATOR)[attribute

DOCUMENTS\_KEY: str](/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base/DOCUMENTS_KEY)[attribute

DEFAULT\_DOCUMENT\_PROMPT](/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base/DEFAULT_DOCUMENT_PROMPT)

## Classes

[class

Chain

Abstract base class for creating structured sequences of calls to components.

Chains should be used to encode a sequence of calls to components like
models, document retrievers, other chains, etc., and provide a simple interface
to this sequence.](/python/langchain-classic/chains/base/Chain)[class

BaseCombineDocumentsChain

Base interface for chains combining documents.

Subclasses of this chain deal with combining documents in a variety of
ways. This base class exists to add some uniformity in the interface these types
of chains should expose. Namely, they expect an input key related to the documents
to use (default `input_documents`), and then also expose a method to calculate
the length of a prompt from documents (useful for outside callers to use to
determine whether it's safe to pass a list of documents into this chain or whether
that will be longer than the context length).](/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base/BaseCombineDocumentsChain)[deprecatedclass

AnalyzeDocumentChain

Chain that splits documents, then analyzes it in pieces.

This chain is parameterized by a TextSplitter and a CombineDocumentsChain.
This chain takes a single document as input, and then splits it up into chunks
and then passes those chucks to the CombineDocumentsChain.

This class is deprecated. See below for alternative implementations which
supports async and streaming modes of operation.

If the underlying combine documents chain takes one `input_documents` argument
(e.g., chains generated by `load_summarize_chain`):

```
split_text = lambda x: text_splitter.create_documents([x])

summarize_document_chain = split_text | chain
```

If the underlying chain takes additional arguments (e.g., `load_qa_chain`, which
takes an additional `question` argument), we can use the following:

```
from operator import itemgetter
from langchain_core.runnables import RunnableLambda, RunnableParallel

split_text = RunnableLambda(lambda x: text_splitter.create_documents([x]))
summarize_document_chain = RunnableParallel(
    question=itemgetter("question"),
    input_documents=itemgetter("input_document") | split_text,
) | chain.pick("output_text")
```

To additionally return the input parameters, as `AnalyzeDocumentChain` does,
we can wrap this construction with `RunnablePassthrough`:

```
from operator import itemgetter
from langchain_core.runnables import (
    RunnableLambda,
    RunnableParallel,
    RunnablePassthrough,
)

split_text = RunnableLambda(lambda x: text_splitter.create_documents([x]))
summarize_document_chain = RunnablePassthrough.assign(
    output_text=RunnableParallel(
        question=itemgetter("question"),
        input_documents=itemgetter("input_document") | split_text,
    )
    | chain.pick("output_text")
)
```](/python/langchain-classic/chains/combine_documents/base/AnalyzeDocumentChain)


